- [Instructor] Throughout its 20 year history,
Java has evolved at an irregular pace.
The delivery cadence of new versions was often
irregular and lengthy due to delays in the development
of big-ticket features in new releases.
In 2017, a new time-based release cadence
was proposed and adopted to allow Java
to ship new feature releases every six months
without delaying them for holdups on big-ticket items.
In addition to the new time-based release cadence,
Oracle announced major shifts in how Java will be supported,
released, and licensed.
The ultimate goal of these changes
is to keep Java competitive with other languages
that evolve at a faster pace.
These recent changes are important
because they apply specifically to Java Standard Edition,
which is used by an estimated 10 million developers.
These developers rely upon the Java Development Kit, or JDK,
which packages and distributes Java Standard Edition.
The JDK is a development environment
for building applications
with the Java programming language.
At the top level of the JDK,
we'll find things like the compiler
for building Java applications
and a Java Runtime Environment or JRE.
The JRE supports the execution of Java programs.
It contains the class libraries
and the Java Virtual Machine,
which executes the actual bytecode of an application.
When we perform a Java migration,
essentially we're upgrading the JDK
and then ensuring the functionality
of the application we're upgrading is correct
and performs properly on the new version of the JDK.
The JDK is used by Java developers
for many tasks required to develop, build, deliver, operate,
and maintain Java applications.
When switching to a new Java version,
your initial planning should evaluate
these areas and activities
to determine how they are impacted by a Java migration.
Throughout the course, we'll review strategies
to successfully address many of these items
when performing a Java upgrade.
Moving past Java 8 may seem like a lot of work;
however, it comes with many benefits.
Recent Java versions have introduced new language features,
improved JVM performance, and strengthened security.
Additionally, as some versions of third party frameworks
reach their end of life,
you may be required to upgrade
to a more recent version of Java
to switch to the latest version of the framework.
As we progress through the course,
I'll teach you how to navigate Java migrations with ease
so you can enjoy these benefits without a bunch of hassle.